# IOS-Portfolio-2020

My name is Tyler George, I'm a junior at Eden Prairie Highschool. I've dabbled in coding in the past but never really stuck with it untill I took this IOS class and since then I have been enjoying it. I have learned an incredible amount in just a few months from reading and watching swift tutorials and the original projects in this repository sum up all of the things I have learned.

Project I - Rock Paper Scissors

This was my first real experiance using swift. I had previously just been following tutorials step by step but this was my first project I did by myself. This project implements the tools that swift UI gives along with code that I wrote to decide who won each round. Along with the coding I also drew all of the images in the game using Sketch. I learned a lot by completing this project. I became more comfortable with the swift UI tools, coded my first original function, and learned how to create basic art for games.

Project II - Collide

After finishing my first project, I was really excited to step up the complexity in my coding. I quickly jumped into collision and spriteKit tutorials for swift to make a better game, but didnt understand how it all worked. With my basic knowledge of how it should work and how the tutorials did it I started my next project 'Collide' which I would work on for the remainder of the term. At the start it was going well, the collision was working and drawing sprites to the screen was easy. However, As soon as I wanted to add multiple different sprites that had different interactions the collision started failing. It took me a long time to figure out why and eventually I decided to truely learn how collision in swift works. After learning how it works I realized how to fix the collision and actually wrote it myself without a tutorial and got it to work. After that change all of the framework was in place for me to finish the project. I added all of the features I wanted including a seperate 'end game screen' and 'game screen'. I also spent a lot of time working out animations to make the game more interesting. I drew lots of frames for each game object using Sketch and figured out how to put them into the program which was hard at first but as I made more it became easier. I learned a lot from completing this project and even got it onto Testflight, and hope to expand upon my knowledge of programming in the future!
